hello everyone and welcome to another
video today we're going to be talking
about the RGB LED what it is how to use
it
and we'll be looking at three sample
Arduino sketches that I made up for it
just to play around with a little bit so
the RGB LED has called that because it
can produce colors of red green and blue
instead of just one color like our
standard LED it could do this because if
we look inside of if you look in there
there are actually if you're gonna bone
see this or not there are actually three
LEDs inside of this one unit and then if
you look at the pins there they're
labeled RGB and then that last one has a
minus sign on it so there that's a
common cathode there on the end the
minus sign so they all share that same
cathode and then we have three different
a notes our G and B and you can produce
red you can produce green or you could
turn on the blue light or any mixture
there in between and that's what we're
gonna be doing today so real quick like
let's let's look look at how the RGB LED
works do a quick sketch so your standard
LED like this one right here you have
you have your cathode here and we attach
that to ground and then we put voltage
here on this leg usually going through a
current limiting resistor and then this
lights up that's all we got to do that's
how we achieve forward bias that's how
we light up the LED so these RGB LEDs
work the same way except you have I
guess something that looks more like
this and then here is the common cathode
that goes to all of them and there's
actually three separate LED
inside of there and to light this one up
you apply voltage here and then of
course ground this one you probable to
cheer this thing you apply voltage here
and you can apply voltage to all three
at the same time in different amounts
using pulse width modulation which we've
covered in a previous module so we're
going to look at a few examples of that
and how we can control the color and the
stuff but I do want to note one thing
this does come from this kit that I have
but a cool kit
it's a Elling goo there it is right
there 37 sensor kit it's got all kind of
cool stuff in it but this the reason I
mentioned that I'm gonna put a link to
take it down below too by the way
the reason I mentioned that is because
this is actually an RGB module and the
only thing that's different between this
and just a standalone
RGB LED is that you see there's our
three there's our two and there's an r1
there each one of those is an SMD
version of a hundred and fifty ohm
resistor so we do not have to use
current limiting resistors with this
because they're built into this little
board if you're using a standalone RGB
LED you'll have to use your own current
limiting resistors on each one each one
of those notes so having said that we're
gonna go ahead and hook this thing up
and for the first sketch let me get here
there we go
for the first sketch make sure I get
this in right ones because I had it
hooked up I pulled it off we are going
to have and there we'll look at the
sketch on the screen too but we have the
AR red red pen is going to digital nine
the green pen right here that's going to
digital pin 10 and then the blue pen is
going to digital pen 11 it's important
that we select the right pens because
each one of those if you look at
if you look at that where it says
digital PWM and it's got the little
tilde symbol nine ten and eleven are all
three PWM pens which we do need if we
want if we want to vary the intensity of
these of this RGB LED if you don't care
if you vary the intensity or not you
could actually use any of the pens but
you'll get full power either on or off
whenever you do that so let's go ahead
and take a look at the first sketch
really simple demonstration and let me
zoom in here on the LED and please
ignore this potentiometers for now we
are not going to be doing anything for
with them at this moment all right there
we go so if you look at the sketch I
have the Pens all assigned in red pen is
nine just like I said green pen is ten
blue pen is 11 those are global
variables and we have nothing in the set
up because it's a real simple little
sketch oh I did comment this out you
take these little comment marks off of
here and all we're gonna do is analog
write to each pen some value in this
case we're doing 50 50 50 but let's
let's start off we'll start off with
zero there if you feed say let's say you
just want red then you just feed the red
pen Oh since we're using PWM we're gonna
feed we're gonna give it some signal
between 0 to 255 255 would be max
brightness or 5 volts so we're going to
put 255 analog right on the red pen and
zero out the other two so we should get
just a red LED and that looks orange in
this light in real life it looks red
promise that is not that color is not
coming out true maybe I'm just over
exposed you owe me
yeah let me drop the exposure down there
we go that looks rad now doesn't it
okay so we get when we do 255 on that
pin just the red pen we get just red and
then simmer loop similarly if we do 255
on the green pin then we'll get a green
LED and then we'll do the blue pin I
notice the blue one is interesting it
must be harder to make a blue LED than
the other colors because it seems to not
be as bright to me but there that's when
we do 255 on the blue pin and here's
something to note if you want to get
white or close to light LED you just
apply 255 to each one and you get white
and then you can do different mixes to
achieve your desired color so that's
like that's a purple thereby doing red
and blue we get purple of course and
then if we do red and green this will be
the last one I do we're kind of there we
go upload red and green yeah it's kind
of a yellowish greenish sorta but anyway
so that that is how you use the RGB LED
I want to do a real simple sketch to
start with and let's move on to another
one
what are we gonna do now okay now we are
going to do a random a random random RGB
program so same program up top red pin
nine green pin 10 blue pin 11 and in the
setup portion if you if you look up the
documentation on generating random
numbers they tell you to see the
number generator off of an analog analog
pin that is not being used in this case
we're going to seed it off of 17 which
is a four I'm sorry yes a four they want
to yep
that's right so we're going to random
seed analog Reed 17 and that will seed
the random number generator if you want
to know more about that then of course
just look up the documentation but then
in the loop portion we're going to
analog write to each pin red pin random
255 that'll return some random number
between 0 and 255 and it'll do it for
the green pin and then the blue pin
it'll hold for this delay of 300
milliseconds and it'll start all back
over again so let's go ahead and run
this sketch and we'll see it pretty
quickly cycle three times a second
approximately cycle through all these
different colors and brightnesses and
[Music]
it's kind of difficult cameras not
really doing a great job of picking this
thing up but it's just cycling through a
random with different values for the
three LEDs in the RGB LED unit okay so
there you could play around with that
some if you want to play with the delays
and stuff like that but let's move on to
the last example of using the RGB LED we
are going to look at this one with these
three potentiometers so let me back it
out some there we go so of course the
LED is still hooked up to the same
digital pins but in this case of added
three potentiometers three 10k
potentiometers and the other the three
legs there the one on the far left on
each one of these potentiometers I've
attached to ground the
on the far right I've attached to +5
volts coming off the power rail here on
the breadboard and then the center pin
on each potentiometer is going over to
an analog pin and if you look at the
sketch here I have these to find up top
as red pot green pot blue pot 14 15 16
those are the three analog pins a 0 a 1
a 2 and then the red pin green pen blue
pen are still defined as they have been
in the past 2 sketches and now in the
loop portion we are just going to we're
just going to run one command on each of
each color the RGB let's see we're going
to do an analogue right and then red pen
so it's going to go red pen green pen
blue pen for each one of these commands
and it's going to map because remember
whenever we dial when are we using it to
the potentiometer and we do a analog
read up from a potentiometer we're going
to get some value between 0 and 10 23 so
we need to feed to our RGB LED some
value between 0 to 255 so we're going to
use the map statement here in our sketch
and then we're going to nest the analog
read where we actually pull the value
from a potentiometer red pot and then
here's the map part here 0 10 23 to 0
255 so it's going to do that for each
one of these colors it's going to pull
the value map it to a value between 0 to
255 and then it's going to analog write
that to that pen so let's go ahead and
run this sketch and I think I have them
all turned off so we should start you
know we're start with a 0 on each one of
the Pens there and if I want all red see
I have them labeled RG and B if I want
just red I'll just adjust this
potentiometer
and now it's at 255 on the red red LED
and this would probably be around 120 or
so whatever so then I'll turn that off
and then green at full intensity and
then here is the blue at full intensity
and of course we can do any mix we like
of those if you do all three it's going
to tend to go to white sort of okay here
we go
I have our have a red and blue at full
blast green all the way down you get
purple then here is and now here's the
white with all of them full blast and
it's pretty bright there's green and
blue together you even know what color
that's pretty it's just a kind of a
turquoise bluish green whatever you want
to call it but yeah you can play around
potentiometers and do different color
mixes they're there that's like well
that's just pretty much green there's
some colors okay wait that is right
there that is shading I don't know if we
can get like a full on yellow but that's
pretty close that's pretty close to a
full full yellow right there and you
know if we this would not be a bad a bad
way to set it up especially if you had
some display either on the serial
monitor or if you had an LCD hooked up
telling you what these values are if you
wanted to you know figure out okay well
how do I make this color or that color
and then you could fill around with
these knobs and then you can know
exactly what the readings are or what
the values are for each one of the
colors there so there we go that's three
different sketches using the RGB LED and
hope you learned a little something
there guys I'll see y'all next time bye
bye